Certifications aren’t worth much unless you can walk the walk

We hire skilled AWS Solutions Architects, not just paper-certified ones
Christophe Limpalair

Charles walks into an in-person interview looking to get a solutions architect position. He’s been studying for months prior to this day — he even earned the AWS Certified Solutions Architect certification, which is what got his foot in the door.

(This $10 certification prep course I flew through in a couple of weeks is really paying off! He thinks in his head as he walks towards a room with a few people ready to test his knowledge and cultural fit.)

They shake hands, introduce themselves, and then get down to business.

One of the lead architects asks:

    Explain what makes these subnets (points to a white board) public, and what makes these subnets private.

Charles responds:

    The public subnets are attached to an Internet Gateway which makes them publicly accessible through a public IP address, while the private subnets are not attached to an IGW and therefore cannot be publicly accessed.

Lead architect:

    What does that mean: “it is attached to an IGW?” and how does traffic flow to and from the public internet to our resources inside of the public subnets?

Charles:

    Hesitates — provides incomplete thoughts — doesn’t really answer the question, but instead goes back to using abstract concepts

This is a scenario I personally witnessed some time ago. It’s also an example of a scenario that our business customers encounter on a regular basis when hiring Solutions Architects.

There were other complicated questions involved in the same interview that resulted in a similar outcome.

The candidate looked great on paper because recruiters had helped make his resume pop. He was also able to give great answers to the pre-screen phone interview. The reason for that is because he had been recently studying for AWS Certification exams and so he was able to answer conceptual questions well.

However, as soon as we tried peeling back layers of abstraction, he (Charles is a fictitious name, in case you are wondering) fell apart. As soon as we asked him to implement certain architectures with gotchas you’d only know about if you’d used the services before, he went back to abstract concepts.

We asked him how he trained for his certifications, and that’s when it clicked. He bought a course on sale for $10, flew through the video material, and then took a practice exam a few times until he felt ready. He took the certification exam a few days later and passed.

He was now a paper-certified AWS Solutions Architect. Not a skilled Solutions Architect.

Let’s be real

Let me clarify something real quick — we’ve trained many thousands of certified Solutions Architects at Linux Academy, so we believe that certifications have significant importance when they are backed by practical skills.

I’m not saying that they aren’t worth anything.

What I’m saying is that certifications are not worth much unless you can also apply what you are learning.

    Watching videos and taking notes isn’t enough.

It might help you pass the exam, but if you think that’s the end goal, you are setting yourself up for failure. Big time.

You need to do. You need to jump into the AWS Console and break things. You need to solve broken multi-tier applications. You need to set up highly available, fault tolerant, and scalable applications — and you need to test your architecture as if it were running in production.

Because guess what, this is the type of stuff you will be doing in the real world. Not selecting A, B, C, D, or E. Solving real problems that cost organizations thousands, tens of thousands, or even millions of dollars.

You’re not going to learn that only by taking a cheap course you found online that doesn’t give you access to real AWS environments and scenarios. You need access to hands-on labs with real scenarios and problems for you to solve.

    But Christophe, I have my own AWS account to practice, I don’t need hands-on labs provided by someone else.

This is something I hear a lot, and it’s a valid point. But let me ask you this: what’s going to validate your work? When you play around with services, even if it seems to work properly, how do you know it’s secure? How do you know it’s the best way to set it up? How do you know it will withstand actual production stress?

How can you set up more complex architectures with n-amount of tiers where you have to go in and troubleshoot the issue? Setting up that kind of environment requires a good bit of experience in the first place, and it’s also pretty easy to troubleshoot something you purposefully broke yourself :-)

Video-only training courses can be great to get you started, but they’re simply not enough. You’ve got to get access to hands-on labs and practice, practice, practice. Learn by doing.

Even if that means spending a little bit more on training, your return on that investment will be far higher.

All of this, I promise you, will go a long way towards solidifying your career as a Solutions Architect.

