

Most people don't understand what top-tier tech companies like Google and Facebook look for in job candidates.

To land a job at FANG, people assume that all they need to do is just practice solving 400+ leetcode problems.  But you know, most FANG engineers aren't banging their heads on a wall like that.

Did you realize that most candidates correctly "solve" the whiteboarding questions, yet still get rejected?  Meanwhile, many others who didn't even finish the problem land full-time offers.

The secret is, it isn't about whether you solve the problem, but how you solve the problem.

This is what so many people don't understand.  They over-prepare for the interviews as if it were a competitive programming contest, with no consideration for technique, analysis, design, and alternatives.

Alternatives are key.  A good candidate will present numerous design alternatives, each with pros & cons on tradeoffs between time, space, and code simplicity.  This is why it is always important to ask clarifying questions.

Candidates are then evaluated on a series of criteria, one of which includes "Design."  Do you see why if you simply solved the problem, you would score ZERO points under the "Design" criteria?  It would be because you showed none of the analysis consideration.  Meanwhile, another candidate who thoughtfully presented an analytical discussion may land the offer, without fully completing the problem.

Another criteria is "Coding." Many candidates fail here too, because their code is not structured correctly... so even though the solution "works," they score ZERO points under the "Coding" criteria!

There are actually a set of 5 primary criteria, with a total set of 20 other optional ones.  We go over all of these in detail at Tech Interview Pro and show you exactly how to ace the interviews.  

Interviewing is a game.  You have to play the game to win.

For a limited time (this weekend only), we are doing a 50% off Memorial Day sale.

https://techinterviewpro.com/deal (50% off Memorial Day Sale)

So, we'd love to have you join our program and make it worthwhile.  If you're for whatever reason dissatisfied, let me know and you can get a full refund if you request within 14 days of joining.  
Also, check out my new video on "What makes Google Engineers different from other engineers."
https://youtu.be/txezAqv-0Mg
 
OK, that's it!  Have a nice day.
TechLead
 
Remember: This is a one-time promotion. Join today to get the deal.
